inside give me a sponsor by expressvpn
your data is your business protected at
expressvpn comm / inside hey everybody
and welcome back to inside gaming Daily
for Thursday it's time to talk about
streaming and it's when you want to
watch a video game not play one mm-hmm
can be now lose this seems strange hey
you're asking why you would want to do
that imagine if you would a world where
you could spend hours upon hours
watching somebody doing it me why would
I do that
I'm not finished you still can pay for
it if you want you pay them to watch
your video games you can pay them till
you so you don't have to play the games
gonna have to buy the games instead you
watch somebody else do it and what's
better it's a lot of time they're
screaming and if you wait around long
enough they may say the n-word okay this
seems like a cousin package I I don't
understand that this you're here I guess
I'm sold for the heated gaming moments
in your life well anyways speaking of
all of a heated gaming moments in our
life the streaming landscape has gone
through a lot of changes since last year
about nine months ago the biggest
streamer in the world shocked everybody
when he announced that he was leaving
twitch cores we're talking about ninja
who announced back in August that he was
leaving for a much smaller platform
mixer which is backed by Microsoft it's
got that stamp of approval but ninja
wasn't the last to jump ship he was
later joined by Michael Grisha aka
shroud and Corey Michael aka King
gatholian gatholian Guth Hylian and then
all of a sudden there was a rush to lock
down big name streaming talent yeah Jack
courage Dunlop left twitch for YouTube
gaming Jeremy disguised toast wang
defected to facebook gaming and recently
go to facebook gaming i don't care what
they offer you things are happening over
there which we'll get to
yeah well and even more recently YouTube
announced that they'd signed the biggest
fish of all PewDiePie to announce an
exclusive live streaming deal with them
he's been on YouTube for like 15 years I
don't think he's going anywhere
now but now he's locked in legally to
stay there it's like a prenuptial
agreement like yes for the eyes of God
you're going to be with each other
through thickness sickness and health
excuse me to you but but like thickness
now think this in health yeah but but
like please this is in the eyes of the
law that you will be here regard
listen if you're not taking half the
house you know it's nice to see them put
their differences aside after they took
away his YouTube original show after all
that yeah he got every true but it was
ninja who seemed to start this tidal
wave and while we don't know how much
money Microsoft presumably threw at him
to jump ship it's fair to assume that
they signed one of the biggest names in
streaming because they wanted to grow
mixer as a platform mm-hmm so how's that
going but now we have some data that
shows uh well sorry it did not work at
all the folks at windows central found a
report from Stream Labs that had some
really bad news for mixer it showed that
while the rest of the live streaming
industry has exploded over the last year
mixer has not so yeah that's despite
hiring ninja it is barely grown at all
yeah well so let's first look at live
streaming as whole stream labs looked at
stats from April of 2020 and compared
them to the same month from a year ago
and this probably won't surprise you but
with everyone in quarantine and staying
at home lots of people are watching
streamers these days yeah as a whole
people watched almost 4 billion hours
across all platforms last month that's
almost a 100 percent increase from this
time of last year 2019 ok god that's
insane it is insane Patrick it's an
insane amount of growth especially when
the economy everywhere else is in big
trouble a big big trouble stream labs
wrote the live streaming industry has
proven to be one of the bright lights
during these dark times based on its
milestone setting viewership numbers see
those lights out there like that of a
strange ocean liner that's live
streaming I guess it's just feels like
you're hanging out with people father
what's that shadowy area on the horizon
oh ho I saw in the film industry we
don't do that my poor Express yeah it
does feel like hanging out to a point
though like the huge streamers the chat
is just like
let's I start making up money as you
start paying you start paying for the
for your for your comments to be some of
the comments we've read and stuff yeah
yeah you do like the night so spin to
get your message highlighted so that the
streamer can go oh yeah oh yeah that is
a good point and just about every
platform is growing which is still the
biggest player by far with almost one
and a half billion hours watched last
month compared to last year it grew
almost a hundred percent YouTube gaming
grew 65 percent even Facebook gaming
grew almost two hundred and forty
percent Facebook gaming but thing no one
watches my immediate guess is that's in
other countries because that's what
Facebook's been doing yeah but since
they started in the US and then
everybody in the u.s. basically died now
except for one generations they're like
actually we're not into it anymore so
they've taken it to like Russia India
because it's so many people use
smartphones for everything so streaming
platforms have mobile only plans that
they approved out in India so maybe
those people are watching Facebook
gaming and that brings us to mixer who's
also doing very well right well it's
numbers were it's funny you should say
that it's numbers were actually really
bad oh it's actually the opposite of
what you just said it had about 37
million hours watched for the month of
April which is I think more than any of
us will see in our own lives right yeah
oh yeah but it seems like a lot of hours
but here's the really bad stat Zack you
have the stats that I left first uh let
me covered in hand sanitizer yes well
everyone was experiencing double and
triple digit growth mixer grew in a typo
0.2% not 2% point two percent despite
having arguably the biggest streamer in
the game as Jeff Gordon at Windows
Central Road without the pandemic it's
not hard to envision that mixer would
have shrunk during this period instead
suggesting to me that the platform has a
serious issue retaining users 0.2% 0.2
when somebody leaves a platform and goes
to another one especially if it's one
where you have to get isn't make a new
account all that stuff like 90% of the
people it just won't do it anymore
I didn't realize so quickly oh I don't
really care I don't care
about this to like download a new app I
don't care enough about the streamers to
even log in on another website yeah it's
just if like Chrome has my twitch saved
and if I have to go to mixer and put in
my email and password again okay I've
been watching you for years it's not
worth it yeah ninjas good at video games
but there are a billion other streamers
with the exact same personality there's
a billion other streamers that are
welded also that good at video games
yeah shroud makes sense to me he's a
very talented at every game he plays and
it's not annoying to watch yeah yes so
like chill dude
besides inside gaming's out there you
can watch us we have an exclusive deal
with god to bring you the best content
so why is mixer doing so badly well
while it made headlines for signing
big-name talent it was always behind
YouTube and twitch and Facebook when it
comes to overall audiences we're waiting
to see how it combats with quippy to try
and combat that Microsoft has integrated
mixer into the Xbox one operating system
as anyone who owns an Xbox can tell you
that's still no meat for the massive
numbers of people who log into Facebook
or YouTube or twitch every day Plus as
we saw when Microsoft threw money at
ninja everyone else raced to lock down
their own stars - I was just gonna say
it'd be funny if one missed the memo and
lock down not a streamer like Facebook
gaming is happy to announce we have
signed an exclusive deal with woody
harrelson yeah I got this contract and I
don't really know what I'm supposed to
do here but I'm very happy they paid to
be here of million dollar you know how
crazy I am
I mean well what does all this mean for
ninja well first of all don't worry I
still got more more money than all of us
put together all three of us put
together and that's so the quit ain't
hurt - some no saying something but it's
a fact that his audience on mixer is far
smaller than it was on twitch he's got
about three million subs currently on
mixer but that's nothing compared to his
twitch audience we're at one point he
had 15 million followers followers
that's a lot as different some subs that
is different in subs yeah three million
subs might might be worth more than 15
million followers buy some back
well with the amount that mixer offered
him I'm sure it's worth more but it's a
it's a bigger number on Twitch so there
yeah exactly 12 is all you need to be to
make a living at it at this point it
could be argued that one engine has
definitely gotten paid to jump to mixer
you might have damaged his long-term
popularity by doing so I don't like you
well at least he takes gaming seriously
I hate when people say it's just a game
you know people out there just around
you doing it's not just a game it's life
what does he say it's a weak mindset
it's a weak mind so sweet well the point
is is you should if you're not breaking
a sweat while you're gaming they've
doing it these that you're a loser okay
so where does this leave mixer well at
this point some are wondering if mixer
can even survive because as Windows
central noted Microsoft isn't one to
stick to a failing project for too long
just ask the Windows Phone or the Zune
Oh could be called mixer the Zune of
streaming services at this point yeah
technologically sound for sure yeah I
think that works yeah that's really well
it's just not very popular yeah as
Stream labs though seem to think that
ninja is still a ray of hope for a mixer
writing well mixer had the least amount
of growth Microsoft still has a
potential ace in its pocket depending on
how they marry ninja with Xbox series X
and Halo infinite ace in its pocket
isn't what threw me off there it's a
nascent look you got your aces in the
hole it's on your pocket is the pocket
the hole is your pocket yeah like we
said other people can play that game too
and there's been no indication that
ninja has some special magic that can
grow a platform just by his presence
alone he is a star there's no doubt
about that
just getting 3 million followers on what
is basically a dead platform like mixer
is proof of that
but as presidents alone did not convince
people to stick around and see what else
mix her head to offer health insurance I
guess cuz his audience is 10 and their
parents didn't want to unblock another
site for them that could that be it and
despite losing its biggest streamer in
ninja twitch is still on top baby
damn it r2 made you an account on the
internet you only get one
you don't need two accounts to watch the
ninja man why don't you go walk that
doctor you lack so much the physician
the physician is for successful
investors disrespect who is that nice
donkey boy you lack so much that's
another side
what's an achievement hunter yeah I mean
well like we said live-streaming is
seeing a huge surge you think's in no
small part to this whole pandemic thing
yeah these growth numbers seriously
they're insane when you see Facebook
gaming girl by more than 200 percent you
know you're in a once in a lifetime
event but even now mixer can't seem to
capitalize on a period in time when
everyone is rushing to watch streamers
that means you've got a product that
nobody wants or at least there are a lot
of better alternatives it's not hard to
imagine that Microsoft takes a look at
mixer realizes they took a shot by
hiring ninja but that it is just not
gonna happen
hey since we're talking about streaming
we actually stream two roosterteeth com
most days of the week here's our
handy-dandy schedule for this week and
we post an updated one to our Twitter
every Monday you can find the link in
the description below we do a bunch of
fun stuff and have some pretty sweet
guests like like Elyse Williams who gave
us some some comedic master class
training so check that out if you don't
have time to catch us live we put out an
edited stream exclusively on
roosterteeth comm every Sunday morning
twitch to know it's mixed Tuesday we're
getting down with the mixer ninja made
headlines few months ago when he
announced that he was leaving twitch the
platform that helped make him famous for
mixer a much smaller streaming platform
backed by Microsoft yeah it was a
massive defection that made headlines
even in the mainstream press